# The Flexibility Premium of AI: A Skills-Based Remote Work Analysis and Implications for the Gender Divide

In the midst of rapid AI growth, persistent gender disparities in tech, and the global shift to remote work, this study investigates whether in-demand AI skills offer a non-monetary premium of flexibility, which may be appealing for women in the workforce. The research employs a mixed-methods, skills- based approach, combining qualitative interviews with women in AI and a quantitative analysis of online job vacancies which leverages a large language model.

To understand the value of flexibility for women in the field, the research includes interviews of women with AI skills, uncovering the high value they place on remote work and how their skillset enables such flexibility. This finding informs a quantitative analysis of remote work in online job vacancies. Using a fine-tuned large language model, it extracts remote work offerings from job postings to investigate whether AI skills offer increased remote work benefits. This analysis reveals that AI skills do offer a remote work premium, with variation across industries and AI subfields. Notably, the varying levels of remote work align closely with trends in AI job growth, highlighting a relationship between remote work benefits and demand for talent.

This analysis provides a new understanding of remote work trends using a skills-based approach, providing evidence on the remote work benefits that in-demand AI skills can provide. This can have significant implications for women’s representation in the AI field and may help address the dispropor- tionate work-life demands women often face.
